The World Happiness Report is a landmark survey of the state of global happiness from 2015 to 2019. 
The report has gained global recognition as governments, organizations and civil society increasingly use happiness 
indicators to inform their policy-making decisions. Leading experts across fields – economics, psychology, survey analysis, 
national statistics, health, public policy and more – describe how measurements of well-being can be used effectively to assess the progress of nations. 
The reports review the state of happiness in the world today and show how the new science of happiness explains personal and national variations in happiness

Happiness score or subjective well-being (variable name ladder ): The survey
measure of SWB is from the Dec 23, 2016 release of the Gallup World Poll
(GWP), which covers the years from 2005 to 2016. Unless stated otherwise, it
is the national average response to the question of life evaluations. The English
wording of the question is “Please imagine a ladder, with steps numbered from
0 at the bottom to 10 at the top. The top of the ladder represents the best
possible life for you and the bottom of the ladder represents the worst possible
life for you. On which step of the ladder would you say you personally feel you
stand at this time?” This measure is also referred to as Cantril life ladder, or
just life ladder in our analysis.

The World Happiness Reports do not make forecasts about future happiness. 
The global pandemic poses great risks for some of the main supports for well-being, 
most especially health and income. The effects on the other main supports could go either way.
 As revealed by earlier studies of earthquakes, floods, storms, tsunamis, and even economic 
crises, a high trust society quite naturally looks for and finds co-operative ways to work 
together to repair the damage and rebuild better lives. This has led sometimes to surprising 
increases in happiness in the wake of what might otherwise seem to be unmitigated disasters. 
The most frequent explanation seems to be that people are pleasantly surprised by the willingness 
of their neighbours and their institutions to work in harness to help each other. 
This delivers a heightened sense of belonging, and pride in what they have been able to 
achieve by way of mitigation. These gains are sometimes great enough to compensate for the material losses. 
But where the social fabric is not strong enough to support co-operative action on the 
required scale, then fear, disappointment and anger add to the happiness costs of a disaster.

The global nature of a pandemic raises especially great challenges, since the readiness of people 
and their institutions to share goals and to help each other is harder to achieve at a greater geographic 
and political distance. But the need is obvious. As the Director-General of the World Health Organization 
reminded the world on March 11th when officially defining COVID 19 as a pandemic: ‘And let’s all look out 
for each other because we need each other.’ We expect to find, when 2020 is in the past rather than the future, 
that countries and communities that react according to this advice will be the ones whose happiness is best sustained.

The rankings in Figure 2.1 of World Happiness Report 2020 use data that come from the Gallup World Poll (for more information 
see the Gallup World Poll methodology). The rankings are based on answers to the main life evaluation question asked in the poll. 
This is called the Cantril ladder: it asks respondents to think of a ladder, with the best possible life for them being a 10, and 
the worst possible life being a 0. They are then asked to rate their own current lives on that 0 to 10 scale. The rankings are from 
nationally representative samples, for the years 2016-2018. They are based entirely on the survey scores, using the Gallup weights to 
make the estimates representative. The sub-bars show the estimated extent to which each of six factors - levels of GDP, life expectancy, 
generosity, social support, freedom, and corruption - contribute to making life evaluations higher in each country than they are in Dystopia, 
a hypothetical country that has values equal to the world’s lowest national averages for each of the six factors (see FAQs: What is Dystopia?). 
The sub-bars have no impact on the total score reported for each country, but instead are just a way of explaining for each country the implications 
of the model estimated in Table 2.1. People often ask why some countries rank higher than others - the sub-bars (including the residuals, which show what is not explained) 
are an attempt to provide an answer to that question.


• Social support (or having someone to count on in times of trouble) is the national
average of the binary responses (either 0 or 1) to the GWP question “If you
were in trouble, do you have relatives or friends you can count on to help you
whenever you need them, or not?”
• Freedom to make life choices is the national average of responses to the GWP
question “Are you satisfied or dissatisfied with your freedom to choose what
you do with your life?”
• Generosity is the residual of regressing national average of response to the GWP
question “Have you donated money to a charity in the past month?” on GDP
per capita.
• Corruption Perception: The measure is the national average of the survey responses to two questions in the GWP: “Is corruption widespread throughout
the government or not” and “Is corruption widespread within businesses or
not?”